hey what's going on guys in this video
I'm going to give you a few useful
Chrome extensions for programming web
development design anything to do with
building websites or web applications
alright I'm always looking for tools
that can help streamline development as
well as increase productivity so let's
take a look at some Chrome extensions
that can help with that
so these aren't going to be in any
particular order but first one we're
going to look at is a little little
extension called JavaScript and CSS code
beautifier so if you're a web developer
chances are that you're looking at
source code daily and when you view it
in your browser by default it kind of
looks like so this tool will take
you the source code whether it's
JavaScript or CSS and make it much more
readable and easier on the eyes so let's
go ahead and install this and I'm going
to put the link to all the all the
extensions in the description I'm going
to click Add extension ok and you can
see a little we have a little icon that
popped up here there are some options we
can look at we can change the theme the
font C JavaScript allow 10 new lines
between tokens do not wrap line so you
can basically format how it looks all
right so let's go ahead and just go to
any website we'll go to my website which
we'll be changing soon actually and then
I'm going to do a control U and let's
click on a JavaScript file so I'm just
going to search for a dot J s and C
let's grab let's just let's just look at
jQuery and this looks like an absolute
mess and this should work with minified
javascript and non minified so we have
this little yellow bar that pops up when
we've it when we look at either a
JavaScript or CSS file and it says
beautify now or no thanks so let's go
ahead and click beautify now and see
what happens and you can see that it's
much more readable now ok it adds all
the indents all the line breaks
everything you need to be able to read
this
all right let's take a look at a CSS
file now so we'll go ahead and look at
main dot CSS which doesn't look bad in
the first place but if it was all
jumbled up as it was minified we could
click beautify and it would change to a
readable format alright so that's the
first extension very very simple the
next one we're going to look at is the
web developer extension okay which is
this one right here now by default
Chrome has dev tools which I'm sure
you've used and they're great they have
you know we can view the source you can
you can edit stuff you can view the
JavaScript console you can view network
activity you can do a lot of things
debugging is really easy but this is an
extra tool you can add that makes things
really easy it doesn't do as much as the
chrome dev tools but I think the layout
is simple you can see it's just one menu
that comes up when you can select
different categories and just select
different actions so let's go ahead and
add that extension and that should pop
up up here all right so we have this
little gear icon and now we have this
menu so we can choose to quickly disable
JavaScript if we want disable
notifications plugins pop-ups and we can
obviously reset these features and then
for cookies we can disable cookies
delete domain cookies session cookies
for the CSS we can disable all styles
you can see it's just a simple click
browser default styles you may want to
do that embedded styles inline styles
and see over here link style sheets okay
and it's in real time it's light it's a
live update print styles you can edit
the CSS so you can see down here we have
the CSS so I'm just going to get rid of
all of it and it automatically updates
and let's say we want to put body and us
here let's say background say we wanted
that red and it automatically updates
okay obviously it's not going to
dick because that wouldn't work out too
well if we reload that's going to go
away okay it's only on your machine and
see what else you see ss his border box
model can reload stylesheets so bunch of
tasks we can do that have to do with the
CSS okay you can also work with forms so
we can check all checkboxes uncheck all
boxes clear the fields clear radio
buttons we can convert form get to post
and post to get Auto completion display
passwords all kinds of stuff you can do
with forms all right I'm not going to go
over every single function here images
we can disable all images we can let's
see fine broken images we can display
the path that's kind of cool so you see
every image on the page as its path
displayed above it hide background
images I guess so this right here is a
background image so we can hide it
reload we can outline all the images and
so on so information we can see display
abbreviations display the div order okay
so the order of divs we can display all
the element information if we hover over
something and click it should give us
all that information so this here is a
paragraph and the Dom gives you the
position the layout the text values all
the styling information okay which you
can do with dev both with them the
default chrome dev tools but this is
kind of a nicer layout I think all right
let's see disable that and what else
table stuff if you're using tables view
the JavaScript
okay miscellaneous we can clear cache
clear history color picker some other
helpful stuff we can outline let's say
if we want to outline all the block
level elements we can outline all the
external links and frames and headings
and all kinds of stuff we can resize the
window okay I can do that easily and
let's see tools we can validate code so
if we want to validate the CSS to
- the w3.org site and shows us all the
different errors and warnings for the
CSS and let's see options reset page
options alright so so you can do a bunch
of things with this extension all right
so that's going to be it for that the
next thing that I want to show you let
me just remove that all right the next
one we're going to look at is or is it
gist clipper or just box clipper okay so
this is actually a companion extension
to just box which is a service by github
that allows you to basically it's a
snippets manager you can add snippets
you can label them by language or by
category or whatever it's my favorite
snippet manager then this extension will
give you an easy way to save code
snippets from anywhere on the web
okay all you need is a github account so
let's go ahead and add this okay and now
you'll see down here they give you this
little sample block of code if we click
this box right here it's going to go
ahead and make this a new gist okay you
can see we have the code down here we
can add some description text we can
call it let's say sample dot J s and
you'll see that the type will
automatically go to JavaScript but you
can choose whatever language whatever
extension you want alright so we'll go
ahead and save okay just has been saved
so now I'm going to view it in just box
and there it is okay so we can easily
save snippets and if we go to let's say
let's say we're looking at the angular 2
documentation
let's see Quick Start and let's say we
want to snippet here you'll see that the
box automatically shows up right here
and we can save it okay so pretty cool
we can also just create a new one if we
do a right-click here and just say
create gist and we can just create one
from scratch if we want okay and you can
have all these DS or custom labels that
I
added but if you create labels you'll be
able to use those as well all right so
really nice for managing your snippets
alright the next one we're going to look
at is awesome autocomplete for github so
let's go ahead and add this and what
this does is it gives you just that an
autocomplete for the github search box
so if we go to github.com and let's say
we want to start learning about angular
we want some repositories on angular and
I start to type you'll see it actually
shows the ones that I have but it'll
search for that it'll also search for
active users that have that whatever
text you put in here alright so if we
just keep typing angular 2 you'll see
that gives us the repositories and users
alright this isn't part of github this
is coming from that extension and when
you when you're on a github page with a
search box this little icon will light
up alright and then you'll see if I
remove this and we reload and I start to
type we don't get anything okay so it's
just a tiny little extension to help you
find what you need on github alright so
this next one is absolutely awesome for
PHP developers it's called PHP console
and basically it will allow you to
display PHP errors and var dumps in the
chrome console just like you would with
JavaScript
all right JavaScript we can just do a
simple console log and and show what we
want so this allows us to do that with
PHP now I'm not going to go over exactly
how to use this in this video I'm going
to make a separate video for that
because we actually have to not only
install the extension but we have to
install we have to install this on our
server as well so that we can make our
calls but let's go ahead and add it here
and then there's actually a sample page
that we can go to to see how it works
all right so let's say we want to go and
copy this right here the live demo and
visit that site
and then what I'm going to do is open up
the console with f12 and then let's
choose this debug VARs and you'll see
down here we get all these console logs
just like as if we were in JavaScript
okay so we can add these labels here and
then the text and then it'll also give
us pretty much any error if we have an
undefined variable or we're missing a
semicolon it's going to give us the
error down here rather than showing it
in the application which is not what you
want to do if if your site or your
application is why if you don't want
users seeing that stuff so this is
really helpful so I am going to do a
video for this this extension alone so
basically what you have to do is install
PHP console using composer and then just
require it in your file and you can
simply set a handler and then you can
just call handler debug and add your
text and then your your basically are
heading or title whatever you want to
call it and then it gets a lot more
complicated to what I probably won't go
into all of that stuff but again just a
really cool extension for PHP developers
alright so the next one we're going to
look at is postman which is actually an
app a chrome app not an extension and
what this is used for is making HTTP
requests to servers so if you have are
you building a REST API or you're
working with a REST API you can make get
request post delete put request to
update data and this is just one of many
extensions that can do that but this is
my personal favorite and this is
actually written with electron which
allows you to build desktop applications
with with JavaScript so let's go ahead
and add postman you'll see it's under
Apps not extensions and let's see let's
go into Chrome apps
chrome colon slash slash apps and you'll
see we have postman if we open that up
it's going to open up a new window and
you can sign up here and log in or you
can just say take me straight to the
okay so from here we can make requests
to whatever endpoint or URL we want we
can choose the type you see we have all
different types of requests so let's
just make a simple get request to github
okay so if we say HTTP and so API dot
github.com slash users I believe that
will work let's try it and that will
give us the first I think 100 users on
github and you can see all that
information we can also make requests to
user slash and then the user name and
put mine in here and you'll see it will
get all of my info from the API so
pretty simple we can also make post
requests and we can add data if we're
adding data to the server we can do that
through the headers and then we can do
that we can also make put requests which
will update data we can delete we can
even call patch requests things like
that some of these I'm not even sure
what they are but it's very very handy
when you're building api's alright the
next one we're going to look at is
marmoset now this isn't really something
you use in development I just thought it
was kind of cool it will basically take
any code you want and turn it into an
image so let's say add to Chrome add app
this is actually an app too and if we
click on marmoset you'll see that we can
put any code we want here and it'll give
you a cool-looking image you can see it
makes it go at an angle and you can
choose different types film RGB shifts
so you can add some effects you can
choose the language as well so you can
get the correct the correct text
highlighting and then you have different
themes okay so you can see we get black
see what else
Erlang dark midnight so there's all
kinds of themes alright nothing it's not
something that's super useful but if
you're building a website for your web
development or web design company and
you want to have kind of a cool image
with some custom code then this is
this is a good thing to use for that so
moving along here the next one we're
going to look at is window resizer and
this is an awesome extension for
building and testing responsive websites
or responsive applications it uses
specific sizes that you can quickly
change to change to view your site on
different displays so let's go ahead and
add this okay so we'll just use this
site as an example but up here you'll
see the little icon and we can choose a
whole bunch of pre-selected sizes so
let's say we want to view 480 wide okay
and you can see that that that would be
basically a mobile view okay we can go
down to 320 as well see we can go tablet
size would be around 768 let's see it
even gives you a description you can see
iPad would be that small desktop and
then large desktop so we can quickly
change to different sizes without having
to drag and guess you know where we're
at it'll tell us the exact pixels so
helpful for responsive responsive web
design and you can also edit presets you
can create your own settings if your own
options and so on okay this next one is
called colorzilla and this was actually
it started out as a Firefox plugin but
now it's now available for Chrome as
well and it's a simple extension that'll
basically give you an in-browser
eyedropper tool and you can get the
value of any color on any website back
in the day I would take a screenshot and
then open that in Photoshop paste it in
and then use the eyedropper tool there
get the color I get the hexadecimal
value but that's that was just way too
much work to get a simple color so let's
go ahead and add this and it should add
a little eyedropper tool up here so
let's go ahead and click that and we'll
go to color picker and you'll see that I
can just go around the page and it's
going to give us the RGB value the
hexadecimal value I see the color change
right here
all right and then if we click on it
it's actually going to copy it to the
clipboard for us and you'll see if I
were to paste that in right here it
gives us the hexadecimal value
all right so pretty handy we can also
look at our history palette browser so
we can look at different different
colors here as well so just a just a
small extension but gives you some some
really helpful functionality all right
so next we have the alarm if some
generator when you're building
applications a website or websites we
often need to fill some content so that
we can see what the actual working
project will look like for instance a
blog post if you're building a blog
application and you may visit a site
like Lipson comm to generate sample text
or alarm if some well this extension
will simply put an icon in your toolbar
that you can click and you can quickly
generate that text without having to go
to another site so let's go ahead and
add that and see we get the little icon
up here and let's click on that and
automatically it's going to generate one
paragraph with ten sentences and we can
easily copy that and then we can change
it if we want to paragraphs and we can
put the number of sentences we want so
pretty helpful very simple but again
very helpful all right so the next one
we have is whap Eliezer and this is a
really cool extension this allows you to
go to any website you want or any
application and it'll show you the
different technologies that it uses okay
so let's go ahead and add that and that
should create a little icon up here okay
and let's go ahead and see what this is
web web lasercom uses so you can see it
uses Amazon Cloud Front uses a CDN uses
analytics it's running in ng an engine
server swiftlet which I'm not sure I
guess that's a web framework for Swift
and then it's running on a bun to PHP
and then the snap framework JavaScript
framework all right if we go to my site
and you can see that it already knows
that it's a wordpress site and this site
I'm going to be updating soon I'm going
to redo it and I think Python but this
is on an Apache server analytics is
running I use MailChimp for the offers
courses updates whatever we're running
PHP five six Twitter bootstrap WordPress
I'm using the Yoast SEO plugin it uses
jQuery and is Twitter emoji JavaScript
graphics alright so this is a pretty
nice extension for when you're you see a
website or an application you like and
you really want to know exactly what it
uses so that you can get some ideas from
it alright this next one is for react
JFS which is a UI library for JavaScript
I have a lot of videos on react I use it
all the time I really like it and this
helps you create a react applications
and UIs so let's go ahead and add this
and then we need to go to a site that
uses react so I'm going to just search
for to do MVC react
okay let's click on that this is just a
simple react application so what we can
do is open up the chrome tools with f12
and you'll see we now have a react tab
okay and we can basically use this just
like we do with the elements tab we can
hover over stuff to select and then we
can hover over stuff and you'll see if
we select that and let's see where is
the component oh we need to go back to
the react so to do item so if we click
on that over here you little show us the
actual ID the key it'll show us all the
different props it has which includes
all the functions that it uses as well
as the property so the to do property
you can see the ID the title whether
it's completed and then it also shows us
the state which in this case it has one
value called edit text alright so if we
go up here you'll see we can hover over
to do app which is the basically the
core component
gives us the model gives us the state we
have editing new to do and now showing
in our state so this is really helpful
for really dissecting react applications
now the last one we look at is moment
we're going to look at is momentum and
this actually isn't it has nothing to do
with development or programming it's a
more of a productivity app and I'm
adding it here because in just about
every video I've done since I installed
this I've been asked what it is so
basically I already have it installed
but when we open up a new tab it'll give
you a screen like this with a random
high-quality image gives you the time
it'll say you know if it's morning good
morning or whatever and then get rid of
that and then it'll ask you the main
focus for today so for example I could
say YouTube and that'll just display
that and then when tomorrow comes it'll
clear out and it will ask you again in
addition to that you have this little
to-do list over here alright so you can
see I have the bills I need to pay which
I already did so I can cross those off
and then you can add a new to do by just
typing it in let's say test and then
enter and that'll add that and you can
cross them out you can also delete them
totally alright so that's pretty much it
I think you can also get the whether you
see a pair gives you the current weather
and if we want to change some settings
you can see we can toggle things the
weather the search box quote see down
here there's a random quote we can
toggle that on and off the to-do list
and so on all right and there is a
premium version that adds some other
stuff notes and so on
but this is just the free version
alright guys so hopefully you enjoyed
this and maybe found something that it
will be useful to you in the future and
that's it thanks for watching